4th July 2014 2:40 AM IST

I spent a log of my time in day with the course "Insights from Game Theory into
Social Behavior" it is pretty awesome course.

I read the slides related to aultrism, it characteristics, the evidences,
modeling by a repeated prisoner's delima, it's extension to multiple players.

Then I also read about costly signalling and its evidences and its rule in
beauty, asthetics and fashion.

And also I read the slides about Cooperation without looking, modelling by the
envelope game the conditions underwhich the cooperation evolves and the
evidences for the model.

The course covers both the theoritical and the practical aspects of the issue
well, there are a lot of modeling and similuations.

I'll try to get a better hand at the theorotical stuff, especially to avoid the
pop evolutionary physcology available on the internet. All the predictions and
explanation should be based on solid mathematical model which is testable on
simulations and in pratice. So I look forward to read the slides again and
derive the conclusions from the mathematical models myself and if I feel
motivated enough I try my hands on the simulations of some models and also read
the additional provided reading material.


As far as sympy is concerned I wrote a quick fix for the small issue with `I in
S.Reals` raising an error. I tried to read the paper on Lambert W function but
didn't read more than a page I'll have to give a deeper and more focused read
tomorrow.

I also though about the intersection of imagesets with the S.Real problem.
Earlier I was think it is pretty easy or rather trivial and I thought deeper
about that and it turned out to me that the implementation might take a lot of
work. But my thinking was completely wrong. What I was thinking was the
solution to `{f(n) + I*g(n)| n in Integers}` is `{f(n)|n in Integers} - {g(n)|n
in Integers}` which is clearly very hard to achieve as it would require the Set
Difference (now Complement) class and a lot of (unknown) specialized rules to
resolve it into a simpler sets. But my thinking is clearly wrong.
The result is `{f(n) | {g(n) = 0 | n in Integers}}` which is trivial to
implement as I thought earlier. That reminds me that I should try to think more
on paper. I'll implement it tomorrow.

Then in the night I checked that the `Set Difference` PR has some doctest
failures, investigating more I figured out that issue was with the `reduce`
function. `_complement` was defined for general sets, so for sets where
a method to `_complement` was not know an `AttributeError` was raised. That
fixed.

I was trying to see if my method of intesection with S.Reals will work with the
exp method of solving trig equations. There I reobserved that `sqrt(I)` was not
being simplified which was causing log(Abs(sqrt(-I)) to remain unsimplified.
I remembered that I thinking on this earlier but I couldn't remember why
I didn't filed an issue. So there I went to dig the issue tracker I read many
issue, verified if they were valid, closed them if they weren't and left
a message if they were. I spend a lot of time this way. I guess I closed two or
three issue and for all of them I forget to add tests and there came the
message from Sergey asking for tests. For one issue I added the test and sent
a PR. For the other issue I thought I should do a git-bisect to figure out
when was change introduced it turned out that the issue was fixed by the
reporter himself(some Russian fella) and that too long ago in 2011 around
almost the same time the issue was reported. Someone should really be working
on the github bot I suggested.
