7th July 2014 02:10 AM IST


For the simulation I was working on yesterday there was
a behaviour that puzzled me. When the survival ratios of all the genes were
equal, the percentage of XY and YX was going down with the number of
generations. I though hard on the problem and the result was that all ratios of
all the genes should remain same. I did more expreimentation on it, checked if
the population was curretly shuffled. Then I tried to run it with different
population sizes, as the population increases the result was less and less
profound. For small populations(100) the ratio of XY and YX very quickly
reached zero (~50 generation) for population size of 1000 the ratio reached
~10% after 400 generations for larger population 10000, the ratios of XY and YX
decreased but to a less extent. The explaination is that the population grows
exponentially, the more the ratio of XX or YY the faster its ratio will grow,
with lower populations it is more likely that XX or YY will random attain
a higher population ratio. Once we have that the tread will continue. The
ratios would have maintained only if the population growth have been linear.

BTW it would be an interesting excersise to see if my expremental plots match
with the theorotical predition and very nice blog post too, I should really do
it.

BTW the program was damn slow for large populations for the size of 10000 it
took 18 minutes to produce the plot. That's why I was trying to optimize it,
installing numba for that conda with the 370 MB large and took almost my whole
day. I was also reading the blog posts of the founder of Continuum Analytics.
It was great to see how closely that company is related to opensource. The
cofounder was a lead developer for numpy for 15 year. Both Aaron and Matthew
works for it and it appears its developers have pretty good ties with the scipy
people.

For Sympy first I was trying to use `_solve_lambert` function in
`solve_univariate` to solve the `exp` and `log` problems. Then I though it
would be better if I complete the study of multivariate solvers turns out they
doesn't appear to be too difficult. I have made a rough writeup describing its
working, clean it up so that I can show it to Sergey and better get the
LambertW solver working by tomorrow.
